David Schaich (he): Okay, it is now time to get underway
David Schaich (he): with the last tutorial in
David Schaich (he): April, on
David Schaich (he): Thursday the
David Schaich (he): 27th.  The 6-digit code for today is
David Schaich (he): 25, 30, 10.  And, as always, we'll start in the usual way and see if there are
David Schaich (he): any questions on your part. While I
David Schaich (he): see if I can
David Schaich (he): make the projector here any better visible --- and that actually made things worse.
David Schaich (he): It's making an effort, and that seems to be the best it will
David Schaich (he): do today.  So,
David Schaich (he): I don't see any questions about the homework due on Wednesday or
other module materials, but
David Schaich (he): I'll also encourage you to speak out if
David Schaich (he): this doc-cam renders what is being projected indecipherable.
David Schaich (he): So the plan for today is a simple one. We introduced last week the
David Schaich (he): I'm. Signed
David Schaich (he): pictures, some materials as here
David Schaich (he): fixed in place by their interactions with their neighbors. So.
David Schaich (he): seeing in the context of the using model. Yeah, focusing on
David Schaich (he): the energy that is stored in
David Schaich (he): links between the nearest neighboring Adams in this south of.
David Schaich (he): Do you.
David Schaich (he): I know the Einstein sol is that we can get a rough but reasonable approximation to
David Schaich (he): the behavior of the system in particular. It's experimentally measurable team capacity just by. Suppose they do that
David Schaich (he): quantize units of energy are randomly distributed among them
David Schaich (he): the various oscillators. Yeah. the system, as we saw there are. If they're all right
David Schaich (he): the 3 directions. So there are
David Schaich (he): 3 times a total oscillators, and over and over 3 atoms in a three-dimensional.
David Schaich (he): And we saw last time
David Schaich (he): I'm. Giving you the number of
David Schaich (he): microstates
David Schaich (he): for a system of
David Schaich (he): and oscillators that are sharing. Hey, use of energy
David Schaich (he): it's driving.
David Schaich (he): This microstate accounting is really the trickiest part
David Schaich (he): of the analysis.
David Schaich (he): which is why I give it to you, and I know some of you.
David Schaich (he): and then to office hours to ask
David Schaich (he): where exactly this is coming from.
David Schaich (he): It's something that is difficult to derive
David Schaich (he): if you don't approach it, and
David Schaich (he): in the right way.
David Schaich (he): So.
folks
David Schaich (he): would I,
David Schaich (he): due to a determined number of ways in which hey units of energy can be distributed. I want
David Schaich (he): he's in distinguishable location in the lab. This is
David Schaich (he): what not to do is to say that
David Schaich (he): for each
David Schaich (he): put that into any one of the sort of each unit of energy can be put into any one of the end oscillators.
David Schaich (he): so we have it. and possible leaves for each of the K. It's of energy that all get multiplied together
David Schaich (he): independently.
David Schaich (he): and then, because the us of energy are indistinguishable
David Schaich (he): essentially.
David Schaich (he): that are being identify with particular places. In this model we have to correct for it the over accounting
David Schaich (he): the same
David Schaich (he): microstates. If
David Schaich (he): this oscillator here has 2 units of energy. That oscillator there has one unit.
David Schaich (he): What? Whether or not we swap.
David Schaich (he): they won't. Do this here, there, then back around
David Schaich (he): so swapping around the units of energy does not give us any
David Schaich (he): additional microstates, and the over accounting that we have
David Schaich (he): is a very complicated mess.
David Schaich (he): Yes. we also the counter
David Schaich (he): when you motivated chrome statistics, looking at occupation done
numbers of energy levels
David Schaich (he): rather than trying to correct for
David Schaich (he): this over counting whenever multiple oscillators have
David Schaich (he): now 0 units of energy. So yeah.
David Schaich (he): trying to say that approach will lead to a big mess.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): the trick that I use
which
David Schaich (he): actually makes this calculation
David Schaich (he): really obvious, we can almost motivate it by looking at the results of
backwards.
David Schaich (he): This collection of
David Schaich (he): in the denominator
David Schaich (he): as the binomial coefficients. Oh, choosing hey
David Schaich (he): out of the total k
David Schaich (he): plus and minus one.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): the trick that we kidding invoke to
David Schaich (he): explain where this is coming from is
David Schaich (he): interpreting the microstate, accounting
David Schaich (he): It's just
David Schaich (he): equivalent to put in. hey here.
David Schaich (he): indistinguishable
David Schaich (he): into and distinguishable boxes.
David Schaich (he): and we watch your
David Schaich (he): accounts. The number of microstates. a number of ways that those balls can be distributed among boxes which we can graphically quick. They know that.
David Schaich (he): and it's just a sequence of symbols. Dots for each ball in a vertical line
David Schaich (he): that is separating each box from the next.
David Schaich (he): So those boxes are distinguishable by the order in which they appear in this sequence
David Schaich (he): we're just mapping it three-dimensional structure of oscillators in the lettuce into a straight line.
David Schaich (he): So if we have this would be a equals 4
David Schaich (he): because of energy for 4 boxes in this particular microstates.
David Schaich (he): It's the one with this energy in the first box and 1 0, and one in the the following 3 oscillators.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): what we can go here is that the in boxes are determined by the location of those N minus one walls between the boxes.
David Schaich (he): so there are
David Schaich (he): a total of
David Schaich (he): k plus n minus one
David Schaich (he): symbols
David Schaich (he): in each of these sequences.
David Schaich (he): and you just need to choose all possible ways for okay.
David Schaich (he): to the
David Schaich (he): which gives us already
David Schaich (he): the number of possible sequences is
David Schaich (he): the I know your coefficient. You're after
David Schaich (he): choosing K. Out with the total k plus n minus one symbols
David Schaich (he): in the sequence. So you have the 7 symbols for you. All right, free to rolls and 4 rolls
David Schaich (he): in that small example. Okay.
David Schaich (he): this is where we're uncertain about this. We can check all of the
David Schaich (he): simple results that we had
David Schaich (he): n equals 3 with K equals 0,
David Schaich (he): 1, 2,
David Schaich (he): 4, 3 use of energy distributed, and all those 3 oscillators. The cohibition that we're coming up with
David Schaich (he): to choose 0 or n minus one is 2. We have K is 0.
David Schaich (he): That just gives one, which is what we
David Schaich (he): explicitly. 3 shoes. One is just 3.
David Schaich (he): Go up to 4, choose 2 and 5. She is 3,
David Schaich (he): 4 factorial over 2 factorial.
David Schaich (he): and that's 4 times 3, 5 to 2,
David Schaich (he): divided by 4, just gets 3 times 2 to 6. Also what
Explicitly to.
David Schaich (he): and then 5 times 4 over 2, it's 10 also
David Schaich (he): what we did
David Schaich (he): exhaustively yesterday. So
David Schaich (he): that's the check that
David Schaich (he): hour.
David Schaich (he): Calculation here is reproducing
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): Small test cases that we work with yesterday, and
David Schaich (he): from this we can just
David Schaich (he): going through the
David Schaich (he): usual sequence of calculations to determine the temperature
David Schaich (he): in terms of the energy invert that to get energy to the function of temperature, and finally take the derivative to and the you capacity.
David Schaich (he): So that inverse temperature is the
David Schaich (he): entropy divided by energy.
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): the energy is. So it's K. You. That's a
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): derivative with respect to K.
David Schaich (he): No rhythm of our
David Schaich (he): so this
David Schaich (he): or the K back, or you
David Schaich (he): this one factorial and just a little bit of
David Schaich (he): you may well have done, based on
David Schaich (he): the expression you got at the end of last week. And so.
David Schaich (he): with a fairly simple expression.
David Schaich (he): one plus and minus one over K. And this one is approximately 10 or 4,
David Schaich (he): and much greater than one.
David Schaich (he): If we plug in that K is
David Schaich (he): the energy over H. 10. Beta.
David Schaich (he): This expression tells us that well
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): inverse.
David Schaich (he): and then inverting that.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): the exponential Beta H. Omega minus one, and then inverse. It's the
David Schaich (he): on the other side.
David Schaich (he): so hopefully integrate it with
David Schaich (he): what you and then taking the derivative of that. with respect to
David Schaich (he): be here.
David Schaich (he): temperature or equivalent with respect to
David Schaich (he): Beta. Let me get it.
David Schaich (he): They slightly messy you expression here. and we have an additional factor of from the chain rule of the denominator along with
David Schaich (he): the numerator.
David Schaich (he): I guess.
David Schaich (he): change to the one over X square power.
David Schaich (he): and if I change variables to
David Schaich (he): more convenient.
David Schaich (he): each. a factor of
David Schaich (he): it is squared comes along from that change of variables in the denominator we have.
David Schaich (he): and then Beta square h bar squared over the
David Schaich (he): over E to the X minus one squared
David Schaich (he): for that heat capacity.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): so we're essentially done with
David Schaich (he): last week's exercise it is. which is good because there is a good to say about.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): how it performs in terms of our goal.
David Schaich (he): We are you saying the experimental video
David Schaich (he): that we looked at some rather than
David Schaich (he): go back to the smaller picture.
David Schaich (he): We want to see how well this
David Schaich (he): X squared in the X over E to the X minus one, squared
David Schaich (he): it scrolls this sort of behavior, so they
David Schaich (he): usual starting point is
David Schaich (he): checking the high end of the
David Schaich (he): the whole work.
David Schaich (he): So start with
little temperature
David Schaich (he): minutes.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the C. Goes to 0. That means the inverse temperature is going to infinity. So variable X is going to infinity.
David Schaich (he): the heat capacity per oscillator.
David Schaich (he): Should we write the full expression here? X. Squared in the X. You need x minus one squared
It's.
David Schaich (he): So this is approximately X squared into the X over into the X square, which is even 2 x. or just x squared over E to the X, which bases
David Schaich (he): exponentially quickly at those temperatures. So
David Schaich (he): yeah, vanishing at low temperatures is
David Schaich (he): that ultimate limit is what we want.
David Schaich (he): And, in fact.
David Schaich (he): in all the experimental data of this sort, not just the selection that we're looking at here.
David Schaich (he): the heat capacity at absolute 0 does it go to 0? And this is
David Schaich (he): one way of phrasing what's called
David Schaich (he): the third of all.
David Schaich (he): So in the more town way. the third wall is entropy goes to a constant. and usually, if that goes to 0, and there's a single microscope.
David Schaich (he): it's 0, because we have to discuss
David Schaich (he): that turns out to be equivalent based on how we go from the Pennsylvania. Sorry, please.
David Schaich (he): That's your energy
capacity
David Schaich (he): to this result.
David Schaich (he): raised in terms of deep capacity, going up to 0
David Schaich (he): in the limit of absolute 0 temperature.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, in the case of
David Schaich (he): this Einstein model of this, how old it
David Schaich (he): it approaches that limits
David Schaich (he): exponentially quickly in the inverse temperature
David Schaich (he): which we will come back to after
David Schaich (he): looking at the high temperature limits. This was where. if you recall last week. All right. Simple. Oh, I
David Schaich (he): just now interacting spins in a magnetic field broke down, and the high temperature limit
David Schaich (he): you look at.
David Schaich (he): We derived this expression in terms of the
David Schaich (he): inverse hyperbolic cosine, and then find that against the temperature we saw that the low temperature limits looked similar to what we just derived from the Einstein solid. The high temperature limit was
David Schaich (he): wildly different than
David Schaich (he): the experimental data points that monotonically increase. totally constant.
David Schaich (he): that distinguishable
David Schaich (he): spin system
David Schaich (he): and runs out of microstates at high
David Schaich (he): temperature and the heat capacity that decreases back down to 0
David Schaich (he): quadratically rather than exponentially. But something that is completely incorrect, as in as a description of the experimental data.
David Schaich (he): And hopefully.
David Schaich (he): having gone through the work of developing this Einstein model.
David Schaich (he): you'll see better behavior now has
David Schaich (he): data and this variable.
David Schaich (he): That's
David Schaich (he): each. It's No, it goes to 0.
David Schaich (he): We need to expand that.
David Schaich (he): Our expression for the incident X squared in the excel room. You know the X minus one squared.
David Schaich (he): but we need to do so like you're doing in the homework
David Schaich (he): a careful expansion
David Schaich (he): in case there are cancellations between
David Schaich (he): numerator and denominator here.
David Schaich (he): So what I mean by this.
David Schaich (he): This is going to, I guess, a bit beyond what was. It is a task and
David Schaich (he): the tutorial activity. So you might not have
David Schaich (he): well through
David Schaich (he): this exercise
David Schaich (he): the way to
David Schaich (he): compare to the experimental data. but it is worth doing it. not only
David Schaich (he): because of this connection to the whole work
David Schaich (he): we expand exponential in the numerator. I will have one plus x plus half a squared higher terms. If the denominator, the ones cancel
David Schaich (he): within that square, so we'll start with the text.
David Schaich (he): plus one half x squared in the room.
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): the year X cubed term in the denominator. either with the overall square. What we can do is
David Schaich (he): pulled out that overall factor of that and cancel it against the X squared and numerator
David Schaich (he): one plus x plus a half X squared remains in the numerator with higher order terms.
David Schaich (he): We have.
David Schaich (he): yeah
David Schaich (he): vector of X cool out of that square.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the same sort of series with different coefficients in the overall square
David Schaich (he): as you could expand that square.
David Schaich (he): and then some small X dependent piece that we will eventually
David Schaich (he): replace with the geometric series in order to. Yes. numerator and nominator combined
David Schaich (he): in terms of powers of our small expansion.
David Schaich (he): So here. first term there is the cross term in the square of one. and then X. So 2 times a half gives us just it. X.
David Schaich (he): With the x squared terms we have
David Schaich (he): that one half x want to be square. so there's a one over 2, squared it's a quarter.
David Schaich (he): and then across term
David Schaich (he): from before 6 X squared
David Schaich (he): to the wall. So that is
David Schaich (he): 2 over 6 for one third.
David Schaich (he): and then we will have higher order terms that we can.
David Schaich (he): If we At this point we're still working to
David Schaich (he): order. X squared there.
David Schaich (he): and turning that one over one plus a small quantity into a your power series. In that small quantity
David Schaich (he): you will be able to interpret the.dot.in terms of bigger orientation. At this point the geometric series for the
David Schaich (he): and then
David Schaich (he): minus the
David Schaich (he): small quality. So the X plus
David Schaich (he): quarter, plus a third, is 3 cross, plus 4, 12 is 7, almost
David Schaich (he): x squared. and then that same small quantity
David Schaich (he): x plus.
David Schaich (he): and then. you know, consistently dropped
David Schaich (he): terms of order. X cubed and higher.
David Schaich (he): What's your for you. you know.
David Schaich (he): Look at this product term by term. Believe in turn this one
David Schaich (he): at Order X. We have x times one minus one times. X. Those are people with the possibilities there. and with order s squared.
David Schaich (he): We have a few possibilities. We have. What have X squared times one
David Schaich (he): we have minus X times. X.
David Schaich (he): We have one times 7, 12
David Schaich (he): x squared with a minus sign.
David Schaich (he): and finally the X squared for that term times one
David Schaich (he): is that a factor of one. Then we don't need to worry about Xq for the time being.
David Schaich (he): So what we have at the end
David Schaich (he): it's the terms linear in H. Bar Omega over to you
David Schaich (he): cancel out our ultimate asymptotic limit is one. and then
David Schaich (he): it's like X squared.
David Schaich (he): I was
David Schaich (he): 6, 12, minus 7, 12, which I already wrote without explaining this over to you. Quantity squared. plus corrections that come in
David Schaich (he): at the cubic level in that small parameter.
David Schaich (he): So that is the same sort of exercise that comes up. And there you go
David Schaich (he): homework, and we can plot it here and see how it looks. What the function
David Schaich (he): versus in terms of the inverse temperature, Beta.
David Schaich (he): So high temperatures are small. Beta limits. Low temperatures are the large beta. which
David Schaich (he): looks a lot different than the on some of them, maybe
David Schaich (he): the experimental data that's motivated us. In the first place, we should fought versus
David Schaich (he): the temperature itself.
David Schaich (he): and as we found at low temperatures an exponential decrease to 0
David Schaich (he): at high temperatures a quadratic approach to
David Schaich (he): that upper limit of one.
David Schaich (he): You know, the feed capacity, or oscillator.
David Schaich (he): So this is much
David Schaich (he): more like the experimental data.
David Schaich (he): but it's still all short. and the low temperature all right. Small values of the temperature for different materials.
David Schaich (he): Again. 5 years
David Schaich (he): as a key capacity divided by temperature.
David Schaich (he): Apply that against the temperature squared or
David Schaich (he): temperature set all
David Schaich (he): very small, less than about 4 kelvin. So
David Schaich (he): 2 squared 16 kelvin squared. we see. hey.
David Schaich (he): linear approach to
David Schaich (he): a non-zero limit. In other words.
David Schaich (he): for you look at
David Schaich (he): low temperature experiments.
David Schaich (he): We have the heat capacity over temperature is there constant. and I think I call
David Schaich (he): Alpha then plus, they turn. That is a straight line.
David Schaich (he): I guess
David Schaich (he): t squared. which means that the heat. Capacity itself is a combination of linear. and
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): is not what we found
David Schaich (he): where this exponential approach is much. Pass your approach to video. Ultimately the third of all compared to what experiment shows.
David Schaich (he): So we have.
David Schaich (he): and half of the tutorial left to set up. explain what is going on with the
David Schaich (he): next activity that fixes this. So the
David Schaich (he): if you where the
David Schaich (he): All shorts at low temperatures
David Schaich (he): is that didn't real late.
David Schaich (he): we decided that
David Schaich (he): we treated it the oscillators. It's completely not interacting
David Schaich (he): tun of the total amount of the energy that's available.
David Schaich (he): It's the temperature decreases.
David Schaich (he): but at the more fundamental level.
David Schaich (he): The purpose of these oscillators is to fix the atoms in place, and Adam starts quickly. It's position, the exert
David Schaich (he): the force on it to show it back
David Schaich (he): to where it is meant to be.
David Schaich (he): But you know from Newton that the oscillator, exerting the force on that add on
David Schaich (he): means that there is an equal and opposite force exerted by the atom of the oscillator.
David Schaich (he): the other side of the oscillator.
David Schaich (he): and exerted on the neighboring atom.
David Schaich (he): So any we also have in one atom
David Schaich (he): not only
David Schaich (he): provide some like you, some energy here. It'd be oscillator. But we all spread the wiggly
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): all of the other atoms that are connected together by those oscillators in order to keep.
David Schaich (he): How do you structure of the and 6? So the ultimate issue? Yes, it is the oscillations we have. We're not just
David Schaich (he): use of energy that can. So here they are
David Schaich (he): across
David Schaich (he): multiple ads
David Schaich (he): in the
David Schaich (he): What is interactions or correlations here?
David Schaich (he): Our
David Schaich (he): so propagating the services
David Schaich (he): that looks like waves.
David Schaich (he): and we
David Schaich (he): motion of all of these atoms. and maybe a picture might be worth many words at this point. bye.
David Schaich (he): So I had a picture loaded, but it looks like the
David Schaich (he): here it is
David Schaich (he): all the way somehow.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): get back to canvas.
David Schaich (he): Keyboard is not
David Schaich (he): moment.
David Schaich (he): Get back to the yeah
David Schaich (he): Pdf for
David Schaich (he): today.
and we will introduce Dubai shortly.
David Schaich (he): This is a picture of this sort of correlated motion. That's
Adams and a selling
David Schaich (he): Billy. Okay. in contrast to the outside solid. There is motion that
David Schaich (he): goes along as a So here a wave over long distances. spreading across many atoms in the salad.
Okay.
David Schaich (he): try to get out of this now and back to.
David Schaich (he): and the way that it's most convenient to handle this mathematically is to describe these waves in terms of
David Schaich (he): quantized units of energy.
David Schaich (he): sure.
David Schaich (he): inspired by
David Schaich (he): the more familiar fact that
David Schaich (he): as we discussed in the lecture, electromagnetic waves
David Schaich (he): are describing. my quantum particle is called so from the
David Schaich (he): Hey, I do. These waves are, in fact.
David Schaich (he): how sound travels in salads, liquid and gases
David Schaich (he): it can be.
David Schaich (he): and less mathematically. in much the same way as we have analyzed
David Schaich (he): gases of photons so like photons.
David Schaich (he): our massless both zones.
David Schaich (he): So they obey the ultra relativistic
David Schaich (he): energy relation. You know she this place calls and times. Their frequency.
David Schaich (he): They
David Schaich (he): travel
David Schaich (he): at the speed of set on there rather than the speed of light.
David Schaich (he): You may know that the speed of sound is many orders of magnitude smaller than the speed of light. hey? Perhaps the more relevant i'll
David Schaich (he): is that because your
David Schaich (he): call in the motions of added to a solid.
David Schaich (he): they
David Schaich (he): Hey. cut off on the maximum wavelength.
David Schaich (he): Sorry So minimum wage for the maximum frequency.
David Schaich (he): So for my like, cut off on the energy.
David Schaich (he): that minimum wavelengths is just set by
David Schaich (he): another Adams that we have, and this is illustrated now that that was these are a few possible waves that
David Schaich (he): we can describe it as phoneones
David Schaich (he): traveling across these
David Schaich (he): many atoms and
David Schaich (he): for responding to the call of the motion. Here.
David Schaich (he): what are you? Low frequency. low of wavelengths behavior when one adds. shifted very far in one directions. Neighboring atoms are shifted along with it.
David Schaich (he): Where is it? The high frequency? Short wave like this? The individual adds, are oscillating counter to each other. and that is the
David Schaich (he): shortest possible wavelength that we can have maximum frequency
David Schaich (he): and the the code here. The end is now the total number of atoms in 3 dimensions.
David Schaich (he): So taking the queue root of
David Schaich (he): that home, it's a queue root in atoms in each of the 3
David Schaich (he): directions.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the next activity for how many a week it is
David Schaich (he): first to
David Schaich (he): we do the
David Schaich (he): full time, gas analysis.
David Schaich (he): or
David Schaich (he): so it's a maximum
David Schaich (he): Pretty well see.
David Schaich (he): and what we want to search for
David Schaich (he): from this analysis
David Schaich (he): again, those
David Schaich (he): Hi i'm going to
David Schaich (he): functional forums for
the capacity.
David Schaich (he): also factors since the 3 compared to 2 for just want to see you whether we can get the
David Schaich (he): experimentally observed behavior all right.
David Schaich (he): that in capacity going like a linear plus cubic
David Schaich (he): in the end, what you will find is that people i'll tell you the the goal to shoot, for that high temperature should be the same. This is what we kind of like the unassigned cell.
David Schaich (he): and that looks kind of yours. We should get that.
David Schaich (he): We will not find the hope. One other thing you know here, which is also
you
David Schaich (he): in the handout that I can pass around for you to have
David Schaich (he): is that this maximum frequency is related to the temperature.
David Schaich (he): It is, in fact, just me
David Schaich (he): we can replace it with the temperature, and it constant numerical factor of the which is the sort of that we
David Schaich (he): what to ignore when just 34 that a function of 4.
David Schaich (he): Yeah
David Schaich (he): to what?
David Schaich (he): Just go on. That. Put the
David Schaich (he): whole activity out for you
David Schaich (he): all at once. And they let you get on with it. having found the Tq. For we are still lacking that in your dependence that dominates at the very low temperatures.
David Schaich (he): So what's going on at those very low temperatures
David Schaich (he): is that there is just
David Schaich (he): not enough energy in the solid to excite any of these phone calls
David Schaich (he): frozen in in place and unable to. I guess we can use that word frozen
David Schaich (he): in a fairly liberal sense. Have these very low temperatures.
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): that linear term is not coming from the motion of the atoms? Or is that by these energy and oscillators in the Einstein approach instead?
David Schaich (he): What we saw last week is that a normalistic for me, I guess. has. hey?
David Schaich (he): Not 0
David Schaich (he): energy expectation going even
David Schaich (he): as the temperature goes to 0, unlike classical gases, or
David Schaich (he): and this internal. really to
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): keep capacity
David Schaich (he): at low temperatures that we go up to 5.
David Schaich (he): What we need to do when we activity for you comes in
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): that's the approximation we made in the lecture last week
David Schaich (he): of
David Schaich (he): approximating the fermi function.
David Schaich (he): It's just the except function
David Schaich (he): turns out to be insufficient that give us a constant energy. So we vanishing heat capacity for all of the
David Schaich (he): approximation.
David Schaich (he): these 2 in the very function
David Schaich (he): in the control. This half is
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): approximate this integral in a different way. So you can recall
David Schaich (he): so propping for numerical factors. Again, it comes to the proportionality
David Schaich (he): fairly function times you do the 3 hands. the e.
David Schaich (he): and in order to. if you like this today. A reasonable way.
Here is a
David Schaich (he): systematic procedure. You can go through.
David Schaich (he): You first integrated that by parts.
David Schaich (he): and then argue
David Schaich (he): the only for
David Schaich (he): the year
David Schaich (he): remaining integrated. After integrating my parts.
David Schaich (he): shortly peaks
David Schaich (he): around it
David Schaich (he): the approximately equal to the chemical potential. So
David Schaich (he): til expanding a factor of either the 5 parents that you should show up there around that sharp peak years simpler integrals
David Schaich (he): that you can evaluate and plug into. Do you expression for the heat capacity.
David Schaich (he): do you derivative of that? Or she with respect to T. So I haven't given you much time to get started with that today. It is
David Schaich (he): that kind of get through it. Hopefully, these steps are
David Schaich (he): sufficiently clear that you will not too much difficulty going through them
David Schaich (he): over the coming week.
We will just have the email
David Schaich (he): one lecture Tuesday afternoon, then back in here next Thursday morning to
David Schaich (he): see how it got off.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): in those last few minutes that we have today. Are there
David Schaich (he): questions
David Schaich (he): about this setup?
David Schaich (he): 2 tasks here
David Schaich (he): to get the low temperature capacity?
David Schaich (he): This is based on that
David Schaich (he): Einstein's oscillators?
David Schaich (he): Not seeing it immediate questions that you it almost it'll stay plugged in for the next few minutes.
David Schaich (he): Shut things down and off
David Schaich (he): to the office hours.